Source: https://www.flsenate.gov/Laws/Statutes/2025/672.316
Retrieved: 2026-09-12T18:34:03.024520+00:00
Publisher edition: 2025 Florida Statutes
Extraction: HTML text, operative section and any publisher notes within that section. Navigation removed.

F.S. 672.316
672.316 Exclusion or modification of warranties.—(1) Words or conduct relevant to the creation of an express warranty and words or conduct tending to negate or limit warranty shall be construed wherever reasonable as consistent with each other; but, subject to the provisions of this chapter on parol or extrinsic evidence (s. 672.202), negation or limitation is inoperative to the extent that such construction is unreasonable.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), to exclude or modify the implied warranty of merchantability or any part of it, the language must mention merchantability and in case of a writing must be conspicuous; and, to exclude or modify any implied warranty of fitness, the exclusion must be by a writing and conspicuous. Language to exclude all implied warranties of fitness is sufficient if it states, for example, that “There are no warranties which extend beyond the description on the face hereof.”
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2):(a) Unless the circumstances indicate otherwise, all implied warranties are excluded by expressions like “as is” or “with all faults” or other language which in common understanding calls the buyer’s attention to the exclusion of warranties and makes plain that there is no implied warranty; and
(b) When the buyer before entering into the contract has examined the goods or the sample or model as fully as he or she desired or has refused to examine the goods, there is no implied warranty with regard to defects which an examination ought in the circumstances to have revealed to him or her; and
(c) An implied warranty can also be excluded or modified by a course of dealing or course of performance or usage of trade.
(d) In a transaction involving the sale of cattle or hogs, there is no implied warranty that the cattle or hogs are free from sickness or disease. However, no exemption applies in cases where the seller knowingly sells cattle or hogs that are diseased.
(4) Remedies for breach of warranty can be limited in accordance with the provisions of this chapter on liquidation or limitation of damages and on contractual modification of remedy (ss. 672.718 and 672.719).
(5) The procurement, processing, storage, distribution, or use of whole blood, plasma, blood products, and blood derivatives for the purpose of injecting or transfusing the same, or any of them, into the human body for any purpose whatsoever is declared to be the rendering of a service by any person participating therein and does not constitute a sale, whether or not any consideration is given therefor; and the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are not applicable.
(6) The procurement, processing, testing, storing, or providing of human tissue and organs for human transplant, by an institution qualified for such purposes, is the rendering of a service; and such service does not constitute the sale of goods or products to which implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose are applicable. No implied warranties exist as to defects which cannot be detected, removed, or prevented by reasonable use of available scientific procedures or techniques.
History.—s. 1, ch. 65-254; s. 1, ch. 69-157; s. 1, ch. 79-141; s. 2, ch. 84-264; s. 566, ch. 97-102; s. 1, ch. 2003-74.
Note.—s. 2-316, U.C.C.
