Utah Code


    Effective 5/4/2022
                                          Chapter 27
                      Commercial Financing Registration and Disclosure Act

                                                 Part 1
                                            General Provisions

    7-27-101 Definitions.
        As used in this chapter:
    (1) "Accounts receivable purchase transaction" means a transaction in which a business forwards
        or otherwise sells to a person all or a portion of the business's accounts, as defined in Section
        70A-9a-102, or payment intangibles, as defined in Section 70A-9a-102, at a discount to the
        accounts' or payment intangibles' expected value.
    (2)
      (a) "Broker" means a person who:
        (i) for compensation or the expectation of compensation, obtains a commercial financing
              product or an offer for a commercial financing product from a third party that, if executed,
              would bind the third party; and
        (ii) communicates the offer described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to a business located in the state.
      (b) "Broker" does not include:
        (i) a provider; or
        (ii) a person whose compensation is not based or dependent on the terms of a specific
              commercial financing product that the person obtains or offers.
    (3) "Business" means a private enterprise carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit.
    (4)
      (a) "Business purpose transaction" means a transaction from which the resulting proceeds that a
           business receives are:
        (i) provided to the business; or
        (ii) intended to be used to carry on the business.
      (b) "Business purpose transaction" does not include a transaction from which the resulting
           proceeds are intended to be used for personal, family, or household purposes.
      (c) For purposes of determining whether a transaction is a business purpose transaction,
           a provider may rely on a written statement of intended purpose, signed by an individual
           authorized to sign on behalf of the business. The written statement may be contained in an
           application, agreement, or other document signed by an individual authorized to sign on
           behalf of the business.
    (5) "Commercial financing transaction" means a business purpose transaction:
      (a) under which a person extends a business a commercial loan or a commercial open-end credit
           plan; or
      (b) that is an accounts receivable purchase transaction.
    (6) "Commercial loan" means a loan to a business, regardless of whether the loan is secured.
    (7) "Commercial open-end credit plan" means commercial financing extended to a business on
        terms under which:
      (a) the creditor reasonably contemplates repeat transactions; and
      (b) subject to any limit set by the creditor, the amount of financing that the creditor may extend to
           the business during the term of the plan is made available to the extent that any outstanding
           balance is repaid.


                                                   Page 1
Utah Code


    (8) "Motor vehicle dealer" means a dealer as defined in Section 41-3-102.
    (9)
      (a) "Provider" means a person who consummates more than five commercial financing
          transactions in the state during any calendar year.
      (b) "Provider" includes a person who, under a written agreement with a depository institution,
          offers one or more commercial financing products provided by the depository institution via an
          online platform that the person administers.

    Amended by Chapter 114, 2024 General Session

    7-27-102 Application.
       The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
    (1) a provider that is a depository institution;
    (2) a provider that is:
      (a)
        (i) a subsidiary of a depository institution; or
        (ii) a service corporation for a depository institution; and
      (b) regulated by a federal banking agency;
    (3) a provider that is regulated under the federal Farm Credit Act 12 U.S.C. Sec. 2001 et seq.;
    (4) a provider that is licensed as a money transmitter in accordance with Chapter 25, Money
        Transmitter Act;
    (5) a provider that consummates five or fewer commercial financing products in the state during
        any 12 month period;
    (6) a commercial financing transaction secured by real property;
    (7) a commercial financing transaction that is a lease as defined in Section 70A-2a-103;
    (8) a commercial financing transaction that is a purchase-money obligation as defined in Section
        70A-9a-103;
    (9) a commercial financing transaction that:
      (a) involves a commercial loan or a commercial open-end credit plan;
      (b) is $50,000 or more; and
      (c) extends the commercial loan or the commercial open-end credit plan to:
        (i) a motor vehicle dealer or the motor vehicle dealer's affiliate; or
        (ii) a motor vehicle rental company as defined in Section 13-48-103 or the motor vehicle rental
              company's affiliate;
    (10) a commercial financing transaction offered by a person in connection with the sale of a
        product or service that:
      (a) the person manufactures, licenses, or distributes; or
      (b) the person's parent company or the person's owned and controlled subsidiary manufactures,
           licenses, or distributes; or
    (11) a commercial financing transaction of more than $1,000,000.

    Enacted by Chapter 449, 2022 General Session


                                                Part 2
                                              Registration




                                                  Page 2
Utah Code


    7-27-201 Registration requirements -- Rulemaking.
    (1)
      (a) Beginning January 1, 2023, it is unlawful for a person to engage in a commercial financing
           transaction as a provider in Utah or with a Utah resident, unless the person:
        (i) registers with the department in accordance with this chapter; and
        (ii) maintains a valid registration.
      (b) An officer or employee of a person required to register under this section is not required to
           register if the person for whom the individual is an officer or employee is registered.
    (2)
      (a) A registration and a renewal of registration expires on December 31 of each year.
      (b) To register or renew a registration under this section, a person shall:
        (i) pay an original registration fee established under Subsection 7-1-401(8); and
        (ii) submit a registration statement containing the information described in Subsection (2)(d).
      (c) To renew a registration under this section, a person shall:
        (i) pay the annual fee established under Subsection 7-1-401(5); and
        (ii) submit a renewal statement containing the information described in Subsection (2)(d).
      (d) A registration or renewal statement shall state:
        (i) the name of the person;
        (ii) the name in which the business will be transacted if different from that required in
              Subsection (2)(d)(i);
        (iii) the address of the person's principal business office, regardless of whether in the state or
              outside the state;
        (iv) the address of each office in this state at which the person engages in commercial financing
              transactions;
        (v) if the person engages in commercial financing transactions in this state but does not
              maintain an office in the state, a brief description of the manner in which the business is
              conducted;
        (vi) the name and address in this state of a designated agent upon whom service of process
              may be made;
        (vii) whether there is a conviction of a crime:
           (A) involving an act of fraud, dishonesty, breach of trust, or money laundering; and
           (B) with respect to that person, an officer, director, manager, operator, or principal of that
                person, or an employee of that person engaged in the business described in this chapter;
        (viii) evidence satisfactory to the department that the person is registered with the Nationwide
              Multistate Licensing System and Registry; and
        (ix) any other information required by the rules of the department.
      (e)
        (i) The commissioner may impose an administrative fine determined under Subsection (2)(e)(ii)
              on a person if:
           (A) the person is required to be registered under this chapter;
           (B) the person fails to register or renew a registration in accordance with this chapter;
           (C) the department notifies the person that the person is in violation of this chapter for failure
                to be registered; and
           (D) the person fails to register within 30 days after the day on which the person receives the
                notice described in Subsection (2)(e)(i)(C).
        (ii) Subject to Subsection (2)(e)(iii), the administrative fine imposed under this Subsection (2)(e)
              is:



                                                    Page 3
Utah Code


           (A) $500 if the person has zero or one office in this state at which the person engages in
               commercial financing transactions; or
           (B) if the person has two or more offices in this state at which the person engages in
               commercial financing transactions, $500 for each office at which the person engages in
               commercial financing transactions.
        (iii) The commissioner may reduce or waive a fine imposed under this Subsection (2)(e) if the
              person shows good cause.
    (3) If the information in a registration or renewal statement required under Subsection (2) becomes
        inaccurate after filing, a person is not required to notify the department until:
      (a) that person is required to renew the registration; or
      (b) the department specifically requests earlier notification.
    (4) In accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act, the department
        may make rules consistent with this section:
      (a) providing for the form, content, and filing of a registration and renewal statement; and
      (b) providing for the transition of persons registering with the nationwide database.

    Enacted by Chapter 449, 2022 General Session

    7-27-202 Disclosures for commercial financing transactions.
    (1) Before consummating a commercial financing transaction, a provider shall disclose the terms
        of the commercial financing transaction in accordance with this section and rules made by the
        commissioner.
    (2) A provider shall disclose the following information in connection with each commercial financing
        transaction:
      (a) the total amount of funds provided to the business under the terms of the commercial
           financing transaction;
      (b) the total amount of funds disbursed to the business under the terms of the commercial
           financing transaction, if less than the amount described in Subsection (2)(a);
      (c) the total amount to be paid to the provider under the terms of the commercial financing
           transaction;
      (d) the total dollar cost of the commercial financing transaction, calculated by finding the
           difference between:
        (i) the amount described in Subsection (2)(a); and
        (ii) the amount described in Subsection (2)(c);
      (e)
        (i) the manner, frequency, and amount of each payment; or
        (ii) if the amount of each payment may vary, the manner, frequency, and estimated amount of
              the initial payment; and
      (f) a statement of whether there are any costs or discounts associated with prepayment under the
           commercial financing transaction, including a reference to the paragraph in the commercial
           financing transaction agreement that creates each cost or discount.
    (3) The commercial financing transaction agreement shall include a description of the methodology
        for calculating any variable payment amount and the circumstances that may cause a payment
        amount to vary.
    (4) The provisions of this section apply to a commercial financing transaction consummated on or
        after January 1, 2023.

    Amended by Chapter 114, 2024 General Session


                                                 Page 4
Utah Code




                                                 Part 3
                                              Enforcement

    7-27-301 Penalties.
    (1) Subject to the requirements of Title 63G, Chapter 4, Administrative Procedures Act, the
        department may:
      (a) receive and act on complaints;
      (b) take action designed to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter; or
      (c) commence administrative or judicial proceedings on the department's own initiative to enforce
          compliance with this chapter.
    (2) A person who violates a provision of this chapter is subject to a civil penalty of $500 per
        violation, not to exceed $20,000 for all violations arising from the use of the same transaction
        documentation or materials.
    (3) A person who violates a provision of this chapter after receiving written notice of a prior
        violation is subject to a civil penalty of $1,000 per violation, not to exceed $50,000 for all
        violations arising from the use of the same transaction documentation or materials.
    (4) Nothing in this chapter creates a private right of action against any person based on failure to
        comply with the provisions of this chapter.
    (5) A violation of this chapter does not affect the enforceability of any underlying agreement.

    Enacted by Chapter 449, 2022 General Session




                                                  Page 5
