SOURCE: https://occc.texas.gov/wp-content/uploads/2026/06/csbf-rules-adoption-fc-070926.pdf
FINAL URL: https://occc.texas.gov/wp-content/uploads/2026/06/csbf-rules-adoption-fc-070926.pdf
RETRIEVED UTC: 2026-09-12T17:09:10.513465+00:00
RESPONSE SHA256: d03e47a46c3be7e2af3d217dfb90df49ca349d31618944d51b3b9ec75eb0a9f8

PDF PAGE 16
LEFT COLUMN
should be aware of the relevant facts: whether
the provider has established a mechanism for
automatically debiting the recipient's deposit
account, and whether the provider has the
required security interest. This language is
appropriate to maintain in §86.313 to ensure
that providers do not circumvent the
prohibition in Texas Finance Code,
§398.056.
Regarding the administrative penalty
provisions in §86.321, two precomments
recommend aligning the rule with Texas
Finance Code, §398.101, which describes a
penalty of $10,000 for each violation. In
response to these precomments, adopted
§86.321(c) explains that there is a maximum
administrative penalty of $10,000 per
violation.
An official comment of consumer and
business advocates recommends that Texas
adopt the Responsible Business Lending
Coalition's Small Business Borrowers' Bill of
Rights. In general, this bill of rights appears
to be a set of legislative proposals that goes
beyond the current requirements of Texas
Finance Code, Chapter 398. The commission
and OCCC interpret this comment as a
proposal for future legislative changes, rather
than a specific set of recommendations for
revising the proposed rules.
Statutory Authority and Affected
Provisions
The new rules are adopted under Texas
Finance Code, §398.005, which authorizes
the commission to adopt rules applicable to
commercial sales-based financing providers
and brokers, and under Section 2(b) of HB
700 (2025), which authorizes rules regarding
registration fees and the form of registration.
The rule provisions related to fees in §86.307
are also adopted under Texas Finance Code,
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 16 of 25
§16.003, which authorizes the OCCC to set
the amounts of fees as necessary for carrying
out its functions. The provisions relating to
suspension or revocation based on criminal
history in §86.322 are also adopted under
Texas Occupations Code, §53.025, which
authorizes state licensing agencies to issue
guidelines describing criminal offenses
related to a particular occupation.
The statutory provisions affected by the
adoption are contained in Texas Finance
Code, Chapter 398.
§86.301. Purpose and Scope
(a) Purpose. The purposes of this
subchapter are to implement Texas Finance
Code, Chapter 398, and to assist in the
administration and enforcement of Chapter
398.
(b) Scope. This subchapter applies to any
person who engages in business as a provider
or broker of commercial sales-based
financing, unless specifically exempted by
Texas Finance Code, Chapter 398.
§86.302. Definitions
Words and terms used in this subchapter
that are defined in Texas Finance Code,
Chapter 398, have the same meanings as
defined in Chapter 398. The following words
and terms, when used in this subchapter, will
have the following meanings, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
(1) Key individual--An individual
owner, officer, director, or employee with a
substantial relationship to the business of an
applicant or registrant. The following are key
individuals:

PDF PAGE 17
LEFT COLUMN
(A) any individual who is a direct
owner of 10% or more of an applicant or
registrant; and
(B) any individual who is a
control person or executive officer of an
applicant or registrant, including individual
who has the power to direct management or
policies of a company (e.g., president, chief
executive officer, general partner, managing
member, vice president, treasurer, secretary,
chief operating officer, chief financial
officer); and
(C) an individual designated as a
key individual where necessary to show that
the business will be operated lawfully and
fairly.
(2) NMLS--The Nationwide
Multistate Licensing System.
(3) OCCC--The Office of Consumer
Credit Commissioner of the State of Texas.
(4) Registrant--A person who has
been issued a commercial sales-based
financing registration under Texas Finance
Code, Chapter 398.
§86.303. Filing of New Application
(a) NMLS. To submit a commercial
sales-based financing registration
application, an applicant must submit a
complete, accurate, and truthful registration
application through NMLS (or a successor
system designated by the OCCC). An
application is complete when it conforms to
the written instructions and necessary fees
have been paid.
(b) Company registration application. A
company registration application will include
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 17 of 25
the following information and any other
information listed in the written instructions:
(1) A company form including the
name of the applicant entity, contact
information, registered agent, location of
books and records, legal status, and responses
to disclosure questions.
(2) An individual form for each key
individual, including name, contact
information, and responses to disclosure
questions.
(3) A business operating plan
describing the source of customers, purpose
of transactions, anticipated size of
transactions, and source of working capital.
(4) A certificate of formation or other
formation document.
(5) Any assumed names or other trade
names that the applicant will use, and an
assumed name certificate for each assumed
name or other trade name.
(6) Franchise tax account information
showing that the applicant entity is
authorized to do business in Texas.
(7) An explanation and supporting
documents for any judgment, memorandum
of understanding, enforcement order, or
conviction against the applicant or a key
individual, related to a violation of law, act of
fraud, breach of trust, or money laundering.
(c) Amendments to pending application.
An applicant must immediately amend a
pending application if any information
changes requiring a materially different
response from information provided in the
original application.

PDF PAGE 18
LEFT COLUMN
§86.304. Processing of Registration
Application
(a) Complete application. A registration
application is complete when:
(1) the application conforms to the
rules and published instructions; and
(2) all fees have been paid.
(b) Effectiveness. A registration is
effective on receipt of a completed
registration application and required fees.
§86.305. Required Notifications
(a) Advance change notice. No later than
the date of the change (or an earlier date
specified in the written instructions), a
registrant must notify the OCCC of a change
to any of the following information provided
in the original registration application:
(1) legal name of entity;
(2) any assumed names of entity;
(3) legal status of entity;
(4) names of direct owners or indirect
owners;
(5) names of affiliates or subsidiaries;
(6) names of any key individuals; or
(7) main address.
(b) Other required notifications. No later
than 30 days after the registrant has
knowledge of the information, a registrant
must report the following information to the
OCCC:
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 18 of 25
(1) any civil or regulatory actions
against the registrant or key individuals that
were not disclosed in the original application
and would require a different answer than
that given in the original registration
application;
(2) criminal history of the registrant
or key individuals that was not disclosed in
the original application;
(3) any bankruptcy of the registrant or
a direct owner; or
(4) any breach of system security
under Texas Business & Commerce Code,
§521.053, affecting at least 250 residents of
this state.
(c) Contact information. Each applicant
or registrant is responsible for ensuring that
all contact information on file with the OCCC
is current and correct, including all mailing
addresses, all phone numbers, and all email
addresses. The OCCC may send notices to
the mailing address or email address on file.
It is a best practice for registrants to regularly
review contact information on file to ensure
that it is current and correct.
§86.306. Registration Term, Renewal, and
Expiration
(a) Registration term and renewal. A
registration must be renewed annually during
a specified renewal period to remain
effective. After renewal, a registration is
effective for a term of one year.
(b) NMLS. To maintain and renew a
registration, a registrant must maintain an
active account in NMLS (or a successor
system designated by the OCCC). The OCCC
may make renewal unavailable to a registrant
that fails to maintain an active account.

PDF PAGE 19
LEFT COLUMN
(c) Expiration. If a registrant does not pay
the annual fee during the renewal period, the
registration will expire.
§86.307. Fees
(a) Initial registration. For an initial
registration, an applicant must pay a $1,000
initial registration fee.
(b) Annual renewal. To renew a
registration, a registrant must pay a $1,000
annual fee.
(c) Registration amendment. The OCCC
may require a registrant to pay a fee up to $75
to amend registration information.
(d) Late renewal. The OCCC may allow
late renewal of a registration for a specified
period. To renew a registration late, a person
must pay a late renewal fee up to $1,000 in
addition to the annual fee.
(e) Periodic adjustment. Starting July 1,
2027, and each July 1 thereafter, the OCCC
may revise the dollar amounts in subsections
(a) and (b) of this section based on the
Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage
Earners and Clerical Workers (or an
equivalent measure of inflation if this
measure is unavailable). The OCCC will use
December 2025 as a base year and adjust fee
amounts based on the percentage change
from December 31, 2025, to the December 31
preceding the year of adjustment, rounding to
the nearest $5 increment. No later than May
1, the OCCC will publish the amount of any
periodic adjustment.
(f) Discount. The OCCC may discount or
reduce the amount of a fee described by this
section. The commissioner is authorized to
determine the amount of a discount.
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 19 of 25
(g) Fees nonrefundable and
nontransferable. Fees described by this
section are nonrefundable and
nontransferable.
§86.310. Disclosures
(a) Timing. A provider must provide a
recipient with any disclosures required by
Texas Finance Code, §398.051, in writing at
or before the time the provider extends a
specific offer to the recipient.
(b) Accuracy. All terms and dollar
amounts disclosed under Texas Finance
Code, §398.051, must accurately reflect the
terms of the provider's specific offer to the
recipient.
(c) Revised disclosures in case of
inaccuracy. At any time after providing
required disclosures under Texas Finance
Code, §398.051, if the provider learns that
any information on the disclosures was
inaccurate or did not correctly reflect the
terms of the transaction at closing, then the
provider must promptly notify the recipient
of the inaccuracy and must promptly provide
revised, accurate disclosures to the recipient.
(d) OCCC notice. A contract for services
under Texas Finance Code, Chapter 398 must
contain the following statement as a separate
section or otherwise conspicuously set out
from surrounding written material: "The
Office of Consumer Credit Commissioner
(OCCC) is a state agency that enforces
certain laws that apply to this contract. If a
complaint cannot be resolved by contacting
the provider, a commercial sales-based
financing recipient can contact the OCCC to
file a complaint. OCCC address: 2601 N.
Lamar Blvd., Austin, Texas 78705. Phone:
(800) 538-1579. Website: occc.texas.gov."

PDF PAGE 20
LEFT COLUMN
§86.311. Recordkeeping
(a) Generally. A provider or broker must
maintain records for each transaction entered
or brokered under Texas Finance Code,
Chapter 398, and must make those records
available for investigation. Records may be
maintained using an electronic system, a
paper or manual system, or a combination of
these types of systems, unless otherwise
specified by statute or rule.
(b) Provider's transaction file. A provider
must maintain a transaction file for each
recipient of a transaction under Texas
Finance Code, Chapter 398. The transaction
file must include the following:
(1) a complete copy of the written
agreement between the provider and the
recipient;
(2) each disclosure made to the
recipient, including disclosures under Texas
Finance Code, §398.051;
(3) each additional document,
addendum, or authorization signed by the
recipient;
(4) any documentation showing
attachment, perfection, or release of a lien;
(5) an account history showing the
application of each payment made by the
recipient; and
(6) any written documentation of
collection, repossession, foreclosure, or
litigation against the recipient.
(c) Broker's transaction file. A broker
must maintain a transaction file for each
recipient of brokering services under Texas
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 20 of 25
Finance Code, Chapter 398. The transaction
file must include any disclosures provided by
the broker to the recipient and any agreement
that the broker entered with the recipient.
(d) Time to maintain transaction file. A
registrant must maintain the transaction file
under subsection (b) or (c) of this section
until the later of:
(1) four years from the date of the
transaction; or
(2) two years from the date of the final
entry on the account.
(e) Application and adverse action
records. If a prospective recipient applies for
commercial sales-based financing and does
not enter a commercial sales-based financing
transaction, then a registrant must maintain
the application and any written adverse
action notice for one year from the date of the
application, or one year from the date of the
adverse action notice, whichever is later.
(f) Advertising and solicitation. A
registrant must maintain each advertisement
or solicitation for one year from the date of
the advertisement or solicitation.
(g) Third-party agreements. A registrant
must maintain any written agreements with
third parties that relate to services under
Texas Finance Code, Chapter 398, including
any agreement between a provider and a
broker, until one year after the date the
agreement terminates.
(h) Data security policies and procedures.
A registrant must maintain policies and
procedures to maintain the security of
customer information and protect
information from unauthorized access.

PDF PAGE 21
LEFT COLUMN
(i) Data breach notifications. A registrant
must maintain the following for data breach
notifications:
(1) the text of any data breach
notification provided to recipients, including
any notification under Texas Business &
Commerce Code, §521.053, for a period of
four years from the date of the notification;
and
(B) any data breach notification
provided to a government agency, including
any notification provided to the Office of the
Attorney General under Texas Business &
Commerce Code, §521.053, for a period of
four years from the date of the notification.
§86.312. Prohibition of Unfair, Deceptive,
and Abusive Acts
(a) Generally. A provider or broker may
not engage in an unlawful, unfair, deceptive,
or abusive act or practice related to a
transaction under Texas Finance Code,
Chapter 398.
(b) Acts and practices identified. The
following are unlawful, unfair, deceptive, or
abusive acts or practices:
(1) false, misleading, or inaccurate
statements in advertisements, solicitations,
disclosures, contracts, or communications
with the recipient or other parties, including:
(A) inaccurate descriptions of
contracted-for services;
(B) claiming a legal right to take
an action that the person does not have the
authority to take; and
(C) a statement that there is no
personal guarantee, if this is inaccurate;
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 21 of 25
(2) failure to perform contracted-for
services;
(3) charging fees or other amounts
that were not specifically disclosed and
contracted for;
(4) failure to make accurate
disclosures under Texas Finance Code,
Chapter 398 and this subchapter;
(5) a confession of judgment in
violation of Texas Finance Code, §398.055;
(6) an automatic debit in violation of
Texas Finance Code, §398.056 and this
subchapter;
(7) a waiver of a recipient's statutory
rights under Texas Finance Code, Chapter
398;
(8) filing a lien on a debtor's property
without first obtaining a security agreement
authenticated by the debtor under Texas
Business & Commerce Code, §9.203;
(9) foreclosure of collateral without
complying with applicable requirements
(e.g., Texas Business & Commerce Code,
Chapter 9);
(10) debiting amounts from a person's
account or deposit account without the
person's authorization;
(11) failure to maintain records
required by this subchapter;
(12) instructing a recipient or a
recipient's customer to redirect payment
amounts to the provider, where the amounts
were previously scheduled to be paid to

PDF PAGE 22
LEFT COLUMN
another person (e.g., a creditor or factor),
unless:
(A) the other person has
consented to payment being redirected to the
provider; or
(B) the payment is for debt that
has been validly assigned to the provider.
(13) a provider's material violation of
a written intercreditor agreement, if the
provider is a party to the agreement;
(14) improperly characterizing a
transaction as a "business" or "commercial"
transaction when the advanced funds are
extended primarily for individual, family, or
household use; and
(15) a device or subterfuge to evade
statutory or regulatory requirements.
§86.313. Prohibition of Certain Automatic
Debits
(a) Generally. As provided by Texas
Finance Code, §398.056, a provider or broker
may not establish a mechanism for
automatically debiting a recipient's deposit
account unless the provider or broker holds a
validly perfected security interest in the
recipient's account under Chapter 9, Business
& Commerce Code, with a first priority
against the claims of all other persons.
(b) Automatic debit. For purposes of this
section, debits are automatic if they are
authorized in advance to occur more than one
time or on a recurring basis. A mechanism for
automatically debiting a deposit account
includes a situation in which a recipient
provides more than one prewritten check to a
provider in advance for payments under a
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 22 of 25
commercial sales-based financing
transaction.
(c) Security interest in accounts
receivable. For purposes of this section, in
order to automatically debit a deposit
account, a provider or broker must hold a
validly perfected, first-priority security
interest in all accounts receivable of the
recipient.
(d) Perfection and priority of security
interest. Texas Business & Commerce Code,
Chapter 9 governs perfection and priority of
a security interest in accounts receivable.
Generally, a UCC-1 financing statement
must be filed in order to perfect a security
interest, as provided by Texas Business &
Commerce Code, §9.310(a). Priority is
generally determined by the time of filing or
perfection, as provided by Texas Business &
Commerce Code, §9.322(a)(1).
(e) Violation by third party. A provider or
broker may not accept payment of a debit in
violation of this section and may not direct a
third party to complete a debit that violates
this section.
§86.320. Complaints and Investigations
(a) Complaints. The OCCC may accept
complaints regarding transactions under
Texas Finance Code, Chapter 398 and this
subchapter.
(b) Request for information and
investigation. On receipt of a written
complaint or other reasonable cause to
believe that a person is violating Texas
Finance Code, Chapter 398 or this
subchapter, the OCCC may:

PDF PAGE 23
LEFT COLUMN
(1) require the person to furnish
information regarding a specific transaction
to which the violation relates; and
(2) conduct an investigation to
determine whether a violation exists.
(c) Access to records. In an investigation
under subsection (b) of this section, a person
subject to investigation must allow the
OCCC to:
(1) access the person's place of
business;
(2) investigate the person's
transactions and records relating to business
under Texas Finance Code, Chapter 398; and
(3) make a copy of transactions and
records relating to business under Texas
Finance Code, Chapter 398.
§86.321. Enforcement
(a) Informal resolution. The OCCC may
agree to an informal resolution of a
complaint, investigation, enforcement case,
or other matter with a provider or broker.
(b) Injunction. If the OCCC has
reasonable cause to believe that a person is
violating Texas Finance Code, Chapter 398
or this subchapter, then the OCCC may issue
an injunction to enforce compliance.
(1) An injunction may include an
order to cease and desist from a violation, an
order to take affirmative action, or both.
(2) An injunction may include an
order to provide restitution to an identifiable
person.
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 23 of 25
(3) If a person against whom an
injunction is issued under this section
requests a hearing not later than the 30th day
after the injunction is served, the OCCC will
set a hearing under Texas Government Code,
Chapter 2001. If a hearing is not timely
requested, the injunction is considered final
and enforceable.
(c) Administrative penalty. After notice
and an opportunity for hearing, the OCCC
may impose an administrative penalty up to
$1,000 for each day of violation, with a
maximum of $10,000 per violation, against a
person who:
(1) violates an injunction under
subsection (a) of this section; or
(2) knowingly and willfully violates
Texas Finance Code, Chapter 398 or this
subchapter.
(d) Suspension or revocation. After
notice and an opportunity for hearing, the
OCCC may suspend or revoke a registration
if the OCCC finds that:
(1) the registrant, knowingly or
without exercise of due care, violated Texas
Finance Code, Chapter 398, this subchapter,
or an order issued under this section; or
(2) a fact or condition warrants the
belief that the business will not be operated
lawfully and fairly.
(e) Administrative Procedure Act. An
enforcement order under this section is
subject to Texas Government Code, Chapter
2001 (the Texas Administrative Procedure
Act).
§86.322. Suspension or Revocation Based on
Criminal History

PDF PAGE 24
LEFT COLUMN
(a) Disclosure of criminal history. An
applicant must disclose all criminal history
information required to file a complete
application. Failure to provide information
described in the disclosure questions or
written instructions is a violation of this
subchapter and is grounds for suspending or
revoking a registration.
(b) Crimes directly related to registered
occupation. The OCCC may suspend or
revoke a registration if the registrant or a key
individual has been convicted of an offense
that directly relates to the duties and
responsibilities of a registrant under Texas
Finance Code, Chapter 398, as provided by
Texas Occupations Code, §53.021(a)(1).
(1) Originating or servicing
transactions under Texas Finance Code,
Chapter 398 involves or may involve making
representations to a recipient regarding
transaction terms, receiving money from
recipients, remitting money to third parties,
maintaining accounts, repossessing property
without a breach of the peace, maintaining
repossessed property, collecting due amounts
in a legal manner, and foreclosing on
property in compliance with state and federal
law. Consequently, the following crimes are
directly related to the duties and
responsibilities of a registrant and may be
grounds for suspension or revocation:
(A) theft;
(B) assault;
(C) any offense that involves
misrepresentation, deceptive practices, or
making a false or misleading statement
(including fraud or forgery);
(D) money laundering;
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 24 of 25
(E) any offense that involves
breach of trust or other fiduciary duty;
(F) any criminal violation of a
statute governing credit transactions or debt
collection;
(G) failure to file a government
report, filing a false government report, or
tampering with a government record;
(H) any greater offense that
includes an offense described in
subparagraphs (A) - (G) of this paragraph as
a lesser included offense;
(I) any offense that involves
intent, attempt, aiding, solicitation, or
conspiracy to commit an offense described in
subparagraphs (A) - (H) of this paragraph.
(2) In determining whether a criminal
offense directly relates to the duties and
responsibilities of holding a registration, the
OCCC will consider the following factors, as
specified in Texas Occupations Code,
§53.022:
(A) the nature and seriousness of
the crime;
(B) the relationship of the crime
to the purposes for requiring a registration to
engage in the occupation;
(C) the extent to which a
registration might offer an opportunity to
engage in further criminal activity of the
same type as that in which the person
previously had been involved;
(D) the relationship of the crime
to the ability or capacity required to perform

PDF PAGE 25
LEFT COLUMN
the duties and discharge the responsibilities
of a registrant; and
(E) any correlation between the
elements of the crime and the duties and
responsibilities of the registered occupation.
(3) In determining whether a
conviction for a crime renders a registrant
unfit to hold a registration, the OCCC will
consider the following factors, as specified in
Texas Occupations Code, §53.023:
(A) the extent and nature of the
person's past criminal activity;
(B) the age of the person when the
crime was committed;
(C) the amount of time that has
elapsed since the person's last criminal
activity;
(D) the conduct and work activity
of the person before and after the criminal
activity;
(E) evidence of the person's
rehabilitation or rehabilitative effort while
incarcerated or after release, or following the
criminal activity if no time was served;
(F) evidence of the person's
compliance with any conditions of
community supervision, parole, or
mandatory supervision; and
(G) evidence of the person's
current circumstances relating to fitness to
hold a registration, which may include letters
of recommendation.
(e) Revocation on imprisonment. A
registration will be revoked on the registrant's
imprisonment following a felony conviction,
RIGHT COLUMN
ADOPTED NEW RULES
7 TAC CHAPTER 86
Page 25 of 25
felony community supervision revocation,
revocation of parole, or revocation of
mandatory supervision, as provided by Texas
Occupations Code, §53.021(b).
(f) Other grounds for suspension or
revocation. The OCCC may suspend or
revoke a registration based on any other
ground authorized by law, including a
registrant's or key individual's conviction for
an offense listed in Texas Code of Criminal
Procedure, art. 42A.054, or art. 62.001(6), as
provided by Texas Occupations Code,
§53.021(a)(2) - (3).
Certification
The agency certifies that legal counsel has
reviewed the adoption and found it to be a
valid exercise of the agency's legal authority.
Issued in Austin, Texas on June 19, 2026.
Matthew J. Nance
General Counsel
Office of Consumer Credit Commissioner
